7.2 - Eloquent Java Script

Introduction
It contained a really thoughtful meditation on why DRY is such a useful concept. Without even really using the word DRY. It's argument was that great coding isn't just about making a program that works, but one who's size and complexity doesn't overwhelm the creator and others studying the code. I particularly liked the line, "The art of programming is the skill of controlling complexity. The great program is subdued—made simple in its complexity."

Ch. 1
Differences: JS has no notion of floats, integers and numbers with decimals are the same type of value. JS also has a number that (as best I know) doesn't exist in Ruby. It is NaN, which denotes the value of any nonsensical computation.
Similarities: Usage of strings is almost identical. And the syntax of logical operators (i.e. &&, ||, !=, ==, <, >, etc) looks identical.

Ch. 2
An expression is any fragment of code that produces a value.
JS uses semicolons to finish and separate statements. A statement stands on its own to change or produce something from some other thing(s).
Console.log() prints a value to the user. It's useful when debugging to see what is going wrong/right in a loop. Or when writing something that will display any value to the user.
So long as a given condition (usually involving a variable) returns as true, the while loop will execute the bracketed code beneath it. A for loop will also execute the code underneath it during the conditions specified by the makeup of the for loop. Namely, an expression that initializes the loop, an expression that checks whether the loop should continue, and an expression that updates the state of the loop after each iteration.
R & JS Differences: For loops are a new concept with specific notation. Variables should be denoted with camel case (eg. camelCase). One has to group more than one linked statement within curly brackets for the control flow to work properly. Comments are made with a // instead of #.
R & JS Similarities: While loops and if/else statements work the same way. JS has the same += shortcut that Ruby has.

Ch. 3
JavaScript and Ruby deal with scope very differnetly.
LV & GV Differences: In Ruby, local variables on the main level are not global variables. Global variables look different. Functions are the only thing that create a new scope, not putting code between brackets.
LV & GV Similarities: Global variables defined outside a function/method can be used inside the function/method. Local variables live within the function/method and cannot be called outside of it.
Function declarations are a variable definiton in which the variable is the function. Parentheses after the function contain the parameters.
One should use functions when there is no builtin function to do what you want to do, and you would rather keep your code DRY than invoke the same steps over and over again.

Ch. 4
Almost all JS values have properties. If you want to look up a (builtin or already-defined) property that a variable has, you should use dot notation. Dot notation assumes that your property name (after the dot) is correct. But, elements in arrays are also stored in properties. Bracket notation in effect causes the computer to do more work. It forces the machine to evaluate the property in the bracket within the context of the information stored in the variable.
JavaScript objects are similar to Hashes in Ruby. The former are arrays of linkages between an object's name property and its value property. This is called object-literal notation. Hashes also store linkages, but they are defined by the user/class instead of by the properties of the object.
